[Music]
okay listen up this test will show how
healthy your brain is seeing is
believing or is it really visual or
optical illusions have tricked the minds
of many generations throughout the
centuries
Aristotle himself notice that if you
shift your stare from a moving waterfall
to perfectly stable rocks they will
magically move as well
oh well man that's like cool visual
illusions are more than just fun for the
audience they can also help you find out
if your brain is healthy right side has
nine curiosities for you to stare at
let's see how many of them you can
figure out okay
I haven't game for that we will tell you
what your results say about your mental
health at the end of this video
[Music]
counting down from number 9 bicycle ok
this one seems pretty plain there is a
bicycle and it's moving still there is
something wrong here something
mysterious can you figure out what the
trick is you have 15 seconds to enjoy
the ride and figure it out
[Music]
what makes the bicycle move obviously
the fact that the spokes in its wheels
are rotating now it can't be that easy
when it comes to optical illusions in
fact the spokes remain in place and the
colors that fill the wheels those 50
shades of grey that keeps changing oh
man really this illusory motion effect
is created thanks to small quick iya
movements scientists are still working
on figuring out how this phenomenon
works to understand the perception of
motion better number eight cafe wall
illusion the name of this illusion was
inspired by a tiled wall of a cafe in
Bristol like Starbucks nah but I will
tell you no more for now can you tell if
the dark lines are parallel to each
other or inclined you've got 15 seconds
to give it a closer look
[Music]
again it seemed like an easy question
the lines are so obviously inclined it
turns out that they're not let us blur
the image quite a bit more now that all
the small elements are completely
blurred you can see the dark blue lines
are actually parallel to each other well
that's not fair
this phenomenon is known as the cafe
wall illusion it was first described
more than a hundred years ago but got
its name only in the 1970s when a guy
named Steve Simpson noticed a similar
effect on the wall of a cafe in Bristol
little black and white bricks at the
intersection of wide lines make this
illusion possible curved elements inside
the blue lines only make this effect
stronger the reason we see this
distortion is that our retinal neurons
and neurons in the visual cortex work
together and quite a peculiar way number
seven a fair lady this gorgeous lady
must be a ballerina otherwise how does
she keep rotating like that with that
much grace like on her toes but we're
not here to discuss her artistic skills
instead can you tell if she is moving in
one or two directions
you're 15 seconds to figure it out start
now
[Music]
so what do you think
left-right both the correct answer is
she is moving in the right direction
[Music]
number six upside down steve buscemi can
you tell me what's wrong with steve
buscemi I mean I hope Steve is perfectly
fine but can you tell me what's wrong
with the second picture you've got 20
seconds for a closer look these pictures
look the same to me hit thumbs up if you
think so too
let's try to turn it upside down oh ho
no that is way too scary it seems like
my eyes tricked me again by the way here
is another fun celebrity optical
illusion number five the impossible
triangle meet the impossible triangle
but wait what makes it so impossible you
say you've got 15 seconds to figure it
out before you hear the explanation
the impossible triangle known as Penrose
triangle is so called because it can
never exist in reality if it did exist
it would be absolutely contrary to the
rules of Euclidean geometry what is so
wrong with this figure well if you
follow the ball sliding on the surface
of the triangle from the top point you
will see that the left side is extending
away and the right side is leaning
towards you however they both seem to be
on the same plane only an optical
illusion makes it seemingly possible to
the human eye well I think my eyes are
crossed and I can't straighten them out
[Music]
number four chessboard you can't play
any chess with this board because it's
moving all over the place or is it you
have 15 seconds to decide if the lines
are rotating as hard as it is to believe
the eyes actually remain where they were
you can see it if you focus on just one
of them if you stare at one point and
ignore the constant movement of black
and white dots it all becomes clear and
dust away huh number three boxes
[Music]
it takes one large box and one little
box and some magic to make this illusion
possible I will leave some space to your
imagination here let's discuss it in the
comment section how is it possible for
the little box to be outside inside and
part of the large box at the same time
[Music]
number two rubik's cube what are these
red and green and white lines all about
it looks like something familiar but
what exactly is it I give you 15 seconds
to try and guess we are going to need a
cylindrical mirror to get the right
answer it's a rubik's cube this optical
illusion is based on an amorphous hey I
remember an amorphous she used to live
down the street actually it's a form of
perspective the idea of it is to
transform images so distorted it is
almost impossible to guess what they are
into something that makes sense
using a cylindrical mirror and it only
makes sense if you do it from one
special point so only one person can see
it at a time it would be a great way to
send hidden messages it turns out this
technique is not a 21st century 3d era
invention it actually dates back to late
Renaissance which was in the 16th
century
[Music]
and number one amazing transformation
the top it all here is one illusion that
will blow your mind and transform your
life Wow will it also make me richer or
better-looking Pay Pal I don't think we
have an illusion powerful enough for
that but you will never be able to look
at Hillary like you used to stare into
her eyes and get ready for it oh my
goodness
now the moment you've all been waiting
for let's find out if your brain is
healthy or different from normal what is
the connection between my brain and all
of these optical illusions you might ask
I see them with my eyes well here is
some news for you when it comes to
vision your eyes are only one part of
this complicated mechanism they transmit
information about the light they
perceive to the brain through the optic
nerve the brain then does all the hard
interpreting work because it gets lazy
sometimes or just too busy it has worked
out some processing shortcuts she uses
shadows perspective and color to correct
the image it gets and decide what is
what and how it works the brain of a
healthy person deceives itself so if you
can't figure out how things are and all
the illusions it only proves the fact
that you are a perfectly normal person
boy that's a relief
people who see what the deceit part of
the illusion is and how it works
immediately are either schizophrenic or
geniuses their brain uses no shortcuts
and doesn't put all the details together
to make things easier people with
schizophrenia cannot choose how and what
they see
[Music]
genius minds can decide if they want to
perceive the deceit or not healthy
normal people can also do it now that
you know the secrets have quite a few
illusions you might start looking at
things differently as well if you liked
this video let us know by using the
special thumbs up button if this video
gets sixty thousand likes we'll share
more amazing optical illusions to trick
your brain subscribe to our channel not
to miss any updates remember life is
better on the bright side
[Music]